
# Conclusion and Further Research

We have shown in this paper that exclusively numeric algorithms like UniDip can be applied to symbolic genomic data. In simple examples, UniDip is able to directly isolate multi-letter degenerate motifs in symbolic data provided the motif instances are aligned. And, in conjunction with global alignment tools, UniDip is able to detect regions of higher conservation with greater concentrations of motif instances. This detection allows us to better focus our search with other motif discovery tools, saving considerable time. UniDip and its use of the Hartigan dip-test provides a new way of thinking about the problem of motif discovery and warrants further research. 

Further research could continue in two directions. First, UniDip should be applied to more generally highly conserved sequences that have not had much evolutionary time to differentiate. UniDip may be well suited to these regions both because there has not been time for motifs to become highly misaligned and because -- so long as there is some difference of level between the signal and noise -- it does not matter to UniDip what level of conservation the background sequence is at. Other algorithms might struggle when creating model where so much of the background is similar to itself, But UniDip's core assumptions do not have that problem

Second, we have so far only examined motif discovery as a univariate problem, it may be of more use to understand the problem as multi-dimensional with each sample sequence acting as its own vector. UniDip's multivariate extension, SkinnyDip, could be extremely useful to this understanding of the problem and provide more accurate results. Using the numeric edit distances provided from pairwise alignments has the potential to avoid many of the problems with misalignment seen in this paper. And, perhaps allow SkinnyDip to function as a self-contained motif finding algorithm.
